Enterprise Web Application Deployment on AWS with CI/CD, Auto Scaling, and Monitoring
Project Overview
This project demonstrates deploying a highly available, secure, and scalable web application on AWS using EC2, RDS, ALB, S3, CloudFront, Route 53, CloudWatch, Auto Scaling, and CI/CD pipelines. The deployment includes multi-AZ architecture, automated backups, monitoring, and enterprise security practices.

Project Objectives
Deploy a highly available web application across multiple availability zones (AZs).
Ensure secure access using IAM roles, security groups, and private/public subnets.
Configure an Application Load Balancer (ALB) with target groups for high availability.
Deploy a MySQL RDS instance in private subnets.
Implement S3 and CloudFront for static content delivery.
Configure Route 53 for domain management.
Enable CloudWatch monitoring and alerts for EC2, RDS, and ALB.
Implement Auto Scaling for EC2 instances to handle traffic spikes.

Step-By-Step Implementation
 VPC and Public Subnets
Create Custom VPC: enterprise-vpc with CIDR 10.0.0.0/16.
Create Public Subnet 1: public-subnet-1 (AZ: us-east-1a, CIDR: 10.0.1.0/24). Enable Auto-assign Public IP.
Create Public Subnet 2: public-subnet-2 (AZ: us-east-1b, CIDR: 10.0.2.0/24). Enable Auto-assign Public IP.
Create and attach Internet Gateway: enterprise-igw.
Create Public Route Table: public-route-table. Route 0.0.0.0/0 → IGW. Associate both public subnets.

 EC2 Deployment
Launch EC2 instance web-server-1 in public-subnet-1.
Launch EC2 instance web-server-2 in public-subnet-2.
Attach Security Group web-sg allowing SSH from your IP and HTTP/HTTPS from anywhere.
Attach IAM role Project1-EC2-S3-Role for S3 access.
Validate EC2 instances: SSH, HTTP access, screenshot dashboard.

Install Web Server
SSH to EC2 → Install Apache: sudo yum install httpd -y
Start & enable service: sudo systemctl start httpd && sudo systemctl enable httpd
Create test HTML page:
echo "<h1>Web Server is working</h1>" | sudo tee /var/www/html/index.html
Test in browser via public IP.

 RDS MySQL Deployment
Create private subnets: private-subnet-1 (10.0.3.0/24), private-subnet-2 (10.0.4.0/24).
Create RDS Security Group: rds-sg (allow MySQL 3306 from EC2 only).
Launch MySQL RDS instance enterprise-db in private subnets.
Connect from EC2 via MySQL client.
Validate Multi-AZ deployment and restricted access.

 ALB and Target Group
Create Target Group web-target-group → HTTP port 80 → register both EC2 instances.
Create Application Load Balancer enterprise-alb → Internet-facing → public subnets → attach web-sg.
Configure listener → forward traffic to target group.
Validate ALB DNS resolves to EC2 instances.

 S3 & CloudFront
Create S3 bucket project1-enterprise-static-bucket → enable versioning → block public access.
Upload index.html, style.css, script.js.
Create IAM role Project1-EC2-S3-Role → attach to EC2.
Configure CloudFront → origin S3 bucket → restrict access via OAI.
Validate CloudFront URL loads content while S3 public URL is blocked.

Route 53 & Custom Domain
Register domain myenterpriseapp.com.
Create Hosted Zone → copy NS records → update registrar.
Create A-alias record → point to CloudFront / Elastic Beanstalk.
Validate browser access → website loads via domain.

 CloudWatch Monitoring
EC2 CPU Utilization → create alarm > 70% → SNS topic.
ALB 5XX errors → alarm > 5.
RDS FreeStorageSpace → alarm < 5GB.
Dashboard: EC2, ALB, RDS metrics visualized.

 	Auto Scaling
Create Launch Template with web-server AMI, Security Group, Key Pair.
Create Auto Scaling Group → min 2 / max 4 instances → attach ALB.
Test scaling by increasing load → validate new EC2 launches.


